This project was the 8th and final project for my CMPT 301: Artificial Intelligence course

The goal of this assignment was to implement Approximate Inference which would allow PacMan to hunt invisible ghosts based on their probable position on the board. We used noisy Manhattan distance, particle distribution and probabilities based on the noisy distance, Pacman’s position and the ghost’s position in order to create a Bayesian network. The picture busters.png illustrates the idea behind the Bayesian network created to enable Pacman to find the ghosts. The darker the color of a square the more likely it is to be the ghost’s actual position. Pacman would then use this network of beliefs to decide which move is the best to take in order to find the ghost.

I chose this assignment for my portfolio because of its difficulty (along with the difficulty of the class in general) The code base for the project was large and required a good amount of effort to decipher. The concepts we learned and their implications were difficult to comprehend and implement. And the workload was significant. On the flip side there was a great reward in completing this assignment and class. Not only did my understanding of the algorithms behind, and the applications of, artificial intelligence greatly increase, I also gained new interests in machine learning and data science. I showed off the projects from this course to more people than any other course I took at Westminster.

In completing this project, I developed significant individual project experience and I had to work really hard to understand the design of the software while developing new problem-solving skills. For the class in general we gained an understanding of the immense number of calculations behind artificial intelligence. There is simply not enough computing power to make all of these calculations by brute force so you must employ algorithms such as search, Markov decision processes, particle filtering etc. In general, this course also facilitated critical thinking in learning these complex algorithms, creativity in working to decipher the ideas of these algorithms and in attempting to implement them. We had to collaborate on several assignments and work to communicate these new ideas to each other. Lastly, we looked at the ethical implications of AI and how we may create ethically responsible AI in the future.

