This assignment was a semester long group project for my CMPT 322: Software Engineering course.

The goal of this assignment was to use the Agile approach to software development in order to create a web-based math game for 1st and 2nd grade students. The requirements were that a student could access a personal account and play a game which ended with a scored assessment. The teacher needed to be able to create accounts for the students, look at student’s scores, give certificates for game completion, and assess various other data points that would be beneficial to the classroom.

I chose this assignment for my portfolio because it was the largest project, outside of my senior capstone, that I worked on while at Westminster, and it afforded me the most real-world-like experience in all of my CS classes. The technologies we used for this project were ActionScript and the Starling framework, HTML/CSS, and Flox (a cloud-based backend for game applications.)

Our group decided to use ActionScript, which we later found was Adobe’s proprietary version of TypeScript, aka Flash. Initially we did not realize we were working with a dated technology. This caused us to run into many roadblocks, almost to the point where we decided to start our project over in order to use different technologies but, we developed effective problem-solving skills that allowed us to find work arounds and solutions for our problems. Along with developing problem-solving skills our team met multiple times a week in order to develop our communication and collaboration skills. In all of my time at Westminster, in any of my classes, the group I worked with for this project was the best. One of the unforeseen aspects of this project, and one of the most eye opening, was attempting to develop software aimed at multiple populations that weren’t necessarily aligned with our peer group. Attempting to think like a teacher in order to facilitate their needs, while also working to create a program that was simple enough for a seven-year-old to use was very eye opening and an enjoyable challenge.

